[release/public-v2.2.0] Update MacOS configuration and compatibility (#953)
ufs-community/ufs-srweather-app: docs/UsersGuide/source/BuildingRunningTesting/RunSRW.rst

Creating the |wflow_env| Environment on Linux and Mac OS
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

> On generic Mac and Linux systems, users need to create a conda |wflow_env| environment that contains python package required for running the workflow. Other conda environments may need to be activated for running graphics generation tasks, |graphics_env|, or when testing the AQM/CMAQ, |cmaq_env|. Python packages in these other environments  that may conflict with those in |wflow_env|. The environment can be stored in a local path, which could be a default location or a user-specified location (e.g., ``$HOME/condaenv/venvs/`` directory). (To determine the default location, use the ``conda info`` command, and look for the ``envs directories`` list.) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On generic Mac and Linux systems, users need to create a conda |wflow_env| environment that contains the python package required for running the workflow. Other conda environments may need to be activated for running graphics generation tasks (|graphics_env|) or when testing the AQM/CMAQ (|cmaq_env|). Python packages in these other environments may conflict with those in |wflow_env|. The environment can be stored in a local path, which can be a default location or a user-specified location (e.g., ``$HOME/condaenv/venvs/`` directory). (To determine the default location, use the ``conda info`` command, and look for the ``envs directories`` list.) 
```

Reviewer: When it says "The environment can be stored..." it's unclear which of the 3 previously mentioned environments we're referring to. Could you clarify?

Author: It should say "The environments..."

Author: and also "... python packages"

Author: including all adding other suggestions

> These conda environments could be added to the existing python or conda modules. This is needed for non-Level 1 platforms. 

Reviewer: We are in a section where we already told Level 1 users to skip ahead. And there are no Mac Level 1 systems. I'd remove "This is needed for non-Level 1 platforms." Or combine the sentences "Users on non-Level 1 platforms will need to add these conda environments to the existing python or conda modules."

> Following is a brief recipe for creating a virtual conda environment on non-Level 1 platforms. It uses the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux and installs into $HOME/conda. Adjust as necessary for your target system.
> 
> Several options and recipes for building the environments are given below as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several options available for building virtual conda environments on non-Level 1 platforms. The examples in this section use the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux and install into $HOME/conda. Users should adjust as needed for their target system. 

Options include:
```

> 1) configuration files in *.yaml format that list core packages required for each of the environments; 2) a more general recipe for installation of the Miniforge3 package that then installs packages for the |wflow-env| as listed in repository workflow-tools (https://github.com/ufs-community/workflow-tools); and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) using configuration files in ``.yaml`` format that list core packages required for each of the environments; 2) using a more general recipe for installation of the Miniforge3 package that then installs packages for the |wflow-env| as listed in the `workflow-tools repository <https://github.com/ufs-community/workflow-tools>`__; and 
```

Author: Adding the following format to include a hyperlink:

as listed in a repository `workflow-tools <https://github.com/ufs-community/workflow-tools>`__;

Reviewer: Note that GitHub renders the backticks as code/console type, but RTD doesn't. So there should be a backtick before "workflow-tools" and after ">", which you did in the raw code but won't see when looking here.

3) installing a miniconda3 module (Lmod) and creating three environments |wflow_env|, |graphics_env|, |cmaq_env|.

> 1) workfow_tools.yaml for |wflow_env|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Users can add the following environment ``.yaml`` files:

   a) workfow_tools.yaml for |wflow_env|
```

.. code-block:: console

   name: workflow_tools
   channels:
     - conda-forge
     - defaults
   dependencies:
     - python=3.9*
     - boto3=1.22*
     - black
     - f90nml=1.4*
     - jinja2=3.0*
     - numpy=1.21*
     - pylint
     - pytest
     - pyyaml=6.0*

>      - tox  

Reviewer: This entire section should probably be indented 6 spaces so that it's considered part of #1a.

Author: done

> regional_workflow.yaml for |graphics_env|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   b) regional_workflow.yaml for |graphics_env|
```

.. code-block:: console

   name: regional_workflow
   channels:
     - conda-forge
     - defaults
   dependencies:
     - python=3.9.*
     - f90nml
     - jinja2
     - pyyaml
     - scipy
     - matplotlib=3.5.2*
     - pygrib

>      - cartopy

Reviewer: This entire section should probably be indented 6 spaces so that it's considered part of #1b.

> 

Reviewer: This entire section should probably be indented 3 spaces so that it's considered part of #1.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

   c) regional_workflow_cmaq.yaml for |cmaq_env|
   
```

> 

Author: to add |cmaq_env| for referencing to as "regional_workflow_cmaq" environment

.. code-block:: console

   name: regional_workflow_cmaq
   channels:
     - conda-forge
     - defaults
   dependencies:
     - python=3.9.12
     - f90nml=1.4*
     - jinja2=3.0*
     - pyyaml=6.0*
     - scipy
     - matplotlib
     - pygrib
     - cartopy
     - netcdf4

>      - xarray

Reviewer: Same -- This entire section should probably be indented 6 spaces so that it's considered part of #1c.

> 2) Installing the Miniforge, as example for the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux that installs into $HOME/conda. Adjust as necessary for your target system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) Users can instead install Miniforge. This example uses the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux and installs into $HOME/conda. Users should adjust as needed for their target system. 
```

> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

   .. code-block:: console
   
```

>    wget https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Miniforge3-Linux-aarch64.sh
>    bash Miniforge3-Linux-aarch64.sh -bfp ~/conda
>    rm Miniforge3-Linux-aarch64.sh

Reviewer: Lines 265-267 may need to be indented 3 more spaces so that they are indented from the `.. code-block:: console:` addition above. 
```suggestion
      wget https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Miniforge3-Linux-aarch64.sh
      bash Miniforge3-Linux-aarch64.sh -bfp ~/conda
      rm Miniforge3-Linux-aarch64.sh
```

These conda environments could be added to the existing python or conda modules. This is needed for non-Level 1 platforms. 
There are several options available for building virtual conda environments on non-Level 1 platforms. The examples in this section use the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux and install into $HOME/conda. Users should adjust as needed for their target system. 

Options include:

1) configuration files in *.yaml format that list core packages required for each of the environments; 2) a more general recipe for installation of the Miniforge3 package that then installs packages for the |wflow-env| as listed in repository workflow-tools (https://github.com/ufs-community/workflow-tools); and 

> 3) installing a miniconda3 module (Lmod) and creating three environments |wflow_env|, |graphics_env|, |cmaq_env|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) installing a miniconda3 module (Lmod) and creating three environments: |wflow_env|, |graphics_env|, and |cmaq_env|.
```

   dependencies:
     - python=3.9*
     - boto3=1.22*
     - black
     - f90nml=1.4*
     - jinja2=3.0*
     - numpy=1.21*
     - pylint
     - pytest
     - pyyaml=6.0*
     - tox  

regional_workflow.yaml for |graphics_env|

.. code-block:: console

   name: regional_workflow
   channels:
     - conda-forge
     - defaults
   dependencies:
     - python=3.9.*
     - f90nml
     - jinja2
     - pyyaml
     - scipy
     - matplotlib=3.5.2*
     - pygrib
     - cartopy

.. code-block:: console

   name: regional_workflow_cmaq
   channels:
     - conda-forge
     - defaults
   dependencies:
     - python=3.9.12
     - f90nml=1.4*
     - jinja2=3.0*
     - pyyaml=6.0*
     - scipy
     - matplotlib
     - pygrib
     - cartopy
     - netcdf4
     - xarray

2) Installing the Miniforge, as example for the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux that installs into $HOME/conda. Adjust as necessary for your target system. 

      wget https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge/releases/latest/download/Miniforge3-Linux-aarch64.sh
      bash Miniforge3-Linux-aarch64.sh -bfp ~/conda
      rm Miniforge3-Linux-aarch64.sh
   source ~/conda/etc/profile.d/conda.sh
   conda activate

>    conda install -y conda-build conda-verify

Reviewer: These will also need to be indented to line up with 265-267.

Creating the |wflow_env| Environment on Linux and Mac OS
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

On generic Mac and Linux systems, users need to create a conda |wflow_env| environment that contains the python package required for running the workflow. Other conda environments may need to be activated for running graphics generation tasks (|graphics_env|) or when testing the AQM/CMAQ (|cmaq_env|). Python packages in these other environments may conflict with those in |wflow_env|. The environments can be stored in a local path, which can be a default location or a user-specified location (e.g., ``$HOME/condaenv/venvs/`` directory). (To determine the default location, use the ``conda info`` command, and look for the ``envs directories`` list.) 

> These conda environments could be added to the existing python or conda modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These conda environments can be added to the existing python or conda modules.
```

> There are several options available for building virtual conda environments on non-Level 1 platforms. The examples in this section use the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux and install into $HOME/conda. Users should adjust as needed for their target system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several options available for building virtual conda environments on non-Level 1 platforms. The examples in this section use the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux and install into ``$HOME/conda``. Users should adjust as needed for their target system. 
```

> There are several options available for building virtual conda environments on non-Level 1 platforms. The examples in this section use the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux and install into ``$HOME/conda``. Users should adjust as needed for their target system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Options include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Options:**
```

> 1) using configuration files in ``*.yaml`` format that list core packages required for each of the environments; 2) using a more general recipe for installation of the Miniforge3 package that then installs packages for the |wflow_env| as listed in repository workflow-tools (https://github.com/ufs-community/workflow-tools); and 

Reviewer: We can delete this because we say it all again right after. 
```suggestion
```

> 3) installing a miniconda3 module (Lmod) and creating three environments: |wflow_env|, |graphics_env|, and |cmaq_env|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

1) Users can add the following environment .yaml files: 

   a) workflow_tools.yaml for |wflow_env|

   .. code-block:: console

      name: workflow_tools
      channels:
        - conda-forge
        - defaults
      dependencies:
        - python=3.9*
        - boto3=1.22*
        - black
        - f90nml=1.4*
        - jinja2=3.0*
        - numpy=1.21*
        - pylint
        - pytest
        - pyyaml=6.0*
        - tox  

   b) regional_workflow.yaml for |graphics_env|

   .. code-block:: console
   
      name: regional_workflow
      channels:
        - conda-forge
        - defaults
      dependencies:
        - python=3.9.*
        - f90nml
        - jinja2
        - pyyaml
        - scipy
        - matplotlib=3.5.2*
        - pygrib
        - cartopy
   
   c) regional_workflow_cmaq.yaml for |cmaq_env|
   
   .. code-block:: console
   
      name: regional_workflow_cmaq
      channels:
        - conda-forge
        - defaults
      dependencies:
        - python=3.9.12
        - f90nml=1.4*
        - jinja2=3.0*
        - pyyaml=6.0*
        - scipy
        - matplotlib
        - pygrib
        - cartopy
        - netcdf4
        - xarray

> 2) Installing the Miniforge, as example for the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux that installs into $HOME/conda. Adjust as necessary for your target system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) Installing the Miniforge, as example for the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux that installs into ``$HOME/conda``. Adjust as necessary for your target system. 
```

> 2) Installing the Miniforge, as example for the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux that installs into ``$HOME/conda``. Adjust as necessary for your target system. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) Users can instead install Miniforge. This example uses the aarch64 (64-bit ARM) Miniforge for Linux that installs into ``$HOME/conda``. Users should adjust as needed for their target system. 
```

Reviewer: I think this somehow got overwritten last time?

See the `workflow-tools repository <https://github.com/ufs-community/workflow-tools>`__ for additional documentation. 

> 3)  Building miniconda3 and creating Lmod modulefile loadable among other modules during the workflow. The module could be added to your <wflow>_platform.lua modulefile, and the environments activated or deactivated as needed for a particular workflow task. A repository with full installation instructions, a modulefile template, and environment configuration files could be accessed here: https://github.com/NOAA-EPIC/miniconda3. Full instructions could be viewd  in a README.md file ( https://github.com/NOAA-EPIC/miniconda3/edit/master/README.md )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) A third option is to build miniconda3 and create an Lmod modulefile that can be loaded with other modules during the workflow. The module can be added to the user's ``wflow_<platform>.lua`` modulefile, and the environments can be activated or deactivated as needed for a particular workflow task. A repository with full installation instructions, a modulefile template, and environment configuration files can be accessed here: https://github.com/NOAA-EPIC/miniconda3. Full instructions can be viewed in the `README.md file <https://github.com/NOAA-EPIC/miniconda3/edit/master/README.md>`__. 
```

> See the `workflow-tools repository <https://github.com/ufs-community/workflow-tools>`__ for additional documentation. 

Reviewer: @natalie-perlin Didn't see this before, but lines 280-287 need to be indented 3 spaces to fall within section 2).
